>> David Khourshid: Hopefully if you learn
anything new and Cursor hasn't learned
this yet, but let's say that we want
to grab dispatch from the context.
You actually don't need to use context,
you could just use.
We have a simple hook called use and
then you could pass
the context directly in there.
This is one of those small patterns
that's definitely going to be
the modern way forward for
React because not only with context or
with some cached state,
there's a lot of plans for use.
But another thing that's coming
up is the ability to use a store.
Again, that's in the future for react, but
it's a pattern that I
want you to get used to.
You don't need to use context,
you could just use use.
Awkward to say that, but you get the idea.
So now on click.
We could actually dispatch that search.
So this is going to start the search.
The state is going to transition to
a loading state in which we show this
loading view and
then we will see this results view.
And then we also need dispatch over here.
So we're going to grab that
from the context as well.
And then we're going to just
have the ability to go back.
But we also need to grab
the states here too.
And here's where it gets
a little bit interesting
because we have state results map.
And so here's the first thing we know, or
at least we expect reasonably
that results should exist.
But it says here that
it might be undefined.
So this is where, you know,
we might want to use type states.
And so what we could do is
say if the status is results,
then the results are definitely defined.
So I'll just leave that over there.
And so
we could split this up even further.
We could say that, you know,
we have a loading status and
then we have a search status over here.
And just like we did before,
we could combine this so
that we have our common properties
such as results stringer
undefined and
then we have our discriminated union.
So you see over here with our received
results we already get a type warning
because it's like, hey, wait a minute,
you're going to the results page, but
you're not actually adding any results.
Again, this is one of the great benefits
of using these discriminated unions,
AKA type states,
is that it will tell you, hey,
you forgot to do something that
adds the results to the state.
So now we could add that.
And this is just going
to be action results.
So now we could go back up
here to our results view and
potentially get rid of that.
But it's still erroring out.
And the reason it's doing
that is because it assumes
that this is any one of the three
possible states that we could be in.
So what we could do is we could
say if there are no results,
we could return null and
hopefully we never get here.
But you could also just
show some sort of error.
This is something that I don't expect
users to really do anything, but
you could just say error,
something went wrong, and
then maybe you'll have a back button or
something again.
This is one of those impossible states
that we should never be able to get to.
Okay, so we have our state,
we have our dispatch,
we're putting them in
a FlowContext provider, and
there's one more missing thing
actually getting the results.
If we go back to this
state machine over here,
State machines have this
concept of actions.
One of the actions that we could do
is an entry action for the results.
And so we could say, sorry,
it would be over here.
So we could actually add an action and
we could say in this state,
we should load the results.
So this is what I mean
by a declarative effect.
We're declaring that in this date,
whenever we enter this date,
this is where we should load the results.
So without getting into X data or
state machines,
let's see how we could translate
that to this application.
This, this would be a good use case for
useeffect.
Essentially, we're saying
that when we're in the.
Not the search page, but the loading page,
we should be fetching those results.
So we could,
let's just do await new Promise a timeout.
So we're just doing a.
Or actually [LAUGH] It's another
weird thing about React.
But we do need to.
It's a little bit tricky to use
async await inside of a use effect.
So we'll either do this or you could
just put another function inside there.
It gets pretty awkward.
Honestly, my favorite thing to do is use
Promise then because we've been doing
that for years and that's the most
natural pattern inside of user effect.
Anyway, the idea is that we are going
to dispatch the results result one and
result two.
And the thing that I really like about
this is it's based on the state.
So if the status is loading,
we know we have to do that effect.
So we're not, you know, we're not
going based on a Boolean variable or
even multiple different states,
you know, states or variables.
Instead we're just going based
on this single state status.
To actually start this now of course
we need to do proper cleanup, and
this is where AI coding
assistance can help.
But now let's see if this actually works.
So going back to our travel flow,
if we reload,
there's one thing that we forgot to do.
We forgot to actually conditionally
show each of these components.
So the way we could do that, and
this is another reason why I like using
these finite states,
is that this becomes very, very clear.
We have if state status is search,
show the search view.
If it's loading, show the loading view.
If it's results, show the results view.
The other way that this is typically
seen in React apps is you have a long
list of conditionals like if is loading
and results length is 0 or whatever.
So basically you're going based on
implicit states rather than these explicit
states.
And so now that we have this,
let's reload.
It says search for stuff,
click search, it's loading, and
eventually we get the results.
So we could go back and
then we could search for stuff again.
Now there's one more
thing that we could do.
This is all contained within the page, but
we could clean this up a little bit again
to make the code a little
more understandable.
What we could do is we could create a,
let's call it flow provider.
And of course it's going to take children,
which is the react node.
And so we could move all of this
logic inside of our flow provider.
So we have it up here and then, so
then we have our flow provider here and
down here, quick.
>> Speaker 2: Also,
the state status would be for
results would be results received
right down below, unlike 143.
>> David Khourshid: Let's
see what we have here.
I think it's just results.
So the action is called receipt results.
And then we show results.
Not the best name, but yeah.
Okay, so now we have this issue over
here where because all this is contained
within the components.
Now we don't have the state directly, but
the easy way to solve this is we could
have another component called
function flow content.
And from there we could
use that flow context.
And then we could just put
all of this inside of there.
And then we have our flow content.
So this looks nice and clean.
So does this.
And we have everything encapsulated
inside of this flow provider.
And so
now we see that everything still works.
So you basically just made your own redux.
Okay, I see in the chat Sandeep asks,
does using use context?
I mean, it's use now, but
same thing, use context.
Does it have any performance implications?
The short answer is yes, it does.
What's going to happen is
that with use context or
with using the context
whenever the state updates,
pretty much everything under there
is going to rerender, unfortunately,
and this might not be a big problem if you
have state that infrequently re-renders.
So context is essentially the built
in React tool that lets you share
this dates and share a way to update
the state with other components.
At least at the moment there is not
really another I mean there might be,
we'll talk about that in a future lesson,
but not really a built in way of
doing what Redux or Zustand etc do those
libraries really help you narrow down
the state, or at least the part of
the state that each component expects so
that you're not
unnecessarily re rendering.
But again, for basic apps or apps where
the state doesn't change too much,
this is more than sufficient.
It's not really going to cause
many performance issues, but
it is something to definitely be aware
of because it definitely can happen.
Like for example, if you have a timer
running in there and you have this reducer
that changes every single second, yeah,
that's going to cause a few issues.
Or if you have something that's
keeping track of the mouse position or
any sort of fast paced subscription,
then yeah, that's going to be an issue.
Lucas also asks in the chat, how would
you organize these state machines like
a generic step state machine or a state
machine specific for booking flights?
My advice, at least in my experience,
is to be pragmatic first.
So don't try to go a level of abstraction
beyond what you're working in just yet.
Always do the manual thing so
you have a state machine specific for
booking flights.
It might be just a very simple step
by step sort of multi step flow, but
don't try to abstract that out into some
generic stepped state machine just yet.